<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 20</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-20" epub:type="chapter">

<h2><a id="XX" name="XX"></a>XX</h2>
<p>For two days, the <i>Ancient Mariner</i> lay hidden in the hills.
It was visible all that time, but at least two of the men were
watching the sky every hour of the day. Torlos himself
was, they knew, perfectly trustworthy, but they did not
know whether his people were as honorable as he claimed
them to be.</p>
<p><a id="Page_163" name="Page_163"></a>Arcot and Wade were in the control room on the afternoon
of the second day—not Earth days, but the forty-hour
Nansalian days—and they had been quietly discussing the
biological differences between themselves and the inhabitants
of this planet.</p>
<p>Suddenly, Wade saw a slowly moving speck in the sky.</p>
<p>"Look, Arcot! There's Torlos!"</p>
<p>They waited, ready for any hostile action as the tiny ship
approached rapidly, circling slowly downward as it came
nearer. It landed a few hundred feet away, and Torlos
emerged, running rapidly toward the Earth ship. Arcot let
him in through the airlock.</p>
<p>Torlos smiled broadly. "I had difficulty in convincing the
Council that my story was true. When I told them that
you could go faster than light, they strongly objected. But
they had to admit that you had certainly been able to
tear down the mountain very effectively, and they had
received reports of the destruction of the Satorian capitol.</p>
<p>"It seems you first visited the city of Thanso when you
came here. The people were nearly panic-stricken when they
saw you rip that mountain down and uproot the magnetic
ray station. No one ship had ever done that before!</p>
<p>"But the fact that several guards had seen me materialize
out of thin air, plus the fact that they knew you could make
yourselves invisible, convinced them that my story was true.</p>
<p>"They want to talk to you, and they say that they will
gladly grant your requests. But you must promise them one
thing—you must stay away from any of our people, for
they are afraid of disease. Bacteria that do not bother you
very much might be deadly to us. The Supreme Council of
Three is willing to take the risk, but they will not allow
anyone else to be exposed."</p>
<p>"We will keep apart from your people if the Council
wishes," Arcot agreed, "but there is no real danger. We
are so vastly different from you that it will be impossible for
you to get our diseases, or for us to contract yours. However,
if the Council wants it, we will do as they ask."</p>
<p><a id="Page_164" name="Page_164"></a>Torlos at once went back to his ship and headed toward
the city.</p>
<p>Arcot followed in the <i>Ancient Mariner</i>, keeping about
three hundred feet to the rear.</p>
<p>When they reached the magnetic screen of the city, one
of the beam stations cut its power for a few moments, leaving
a gap for the two ships to glide smoothly through.</p>
<p>On the roofs of the buildings, men and women were
collected, watching the shining, polished hull of the strange
ship as it moved silently above them.</p>
<p>Torlos led them to the great central building and dropped
to the huge landing field beside it. All around them, in
regular rows, the great hulls of the Nansal battleships were
arranged. Arcot landed the <i>Ancient Mariner</i> and shut off
the power.</p>
<p>"I think Wade is the man to go with me this time,"
Arcot said. "He has learned to communicate with Torlos
quite well. We will each carry both pistols and wear our
power suits. And we'll be in radio communication with you
at all times.</p>
<p>"I don't think they'll start anything we don't like this
time, but I'm not as confident as I was, and I'm not going
to take any useless chances. This time I'm going to make
arrangements. If I die here, there's going to be a very costly
funeral, and these men are going to pay the costs!</p>
<p>"I'll call you every three minutes, Morey. If I don't, check
up on me. If you still don't get an answer, take this place
apart because you won't be able to hurt us then.</p>
<p>"I'm going to tell Torlos about our precautions. If the building
shields the radio, I'll be listening for you and I'll retrace
my steps until I can contact you again. Right? Then
come on, Wade!" Arcot, fully equipped, strode down the corridor
to the airlock.</p>
<p>Torlos was waiting for them with another man, whom Torlos
explained was a high-ranking officer of the fleet. Torlos,
it seemed, was without official rank. He was a secret service
agent without official status, and therefore an officer had
been assigned to accompany the Earthmen.</p>
<p><a id="Page_165" name="Page_165"></a>Torlos seemed to be relaxing in the soft, warm sunlight
of his native world. It had been years since he had seen
that yellow sun except from the windows of a space flier.
Now he could walk around in the clear air of the planet of
his birth.</p>
<p>Arcot explained to him the precautions they had taken
against trouble here, and Torlos smiled. "You have certainly
learned greater caution. I can't blame you. We certainly
seem little different from the men of Sator; we can only stand
on trial. But I know you will be safe."</p>
<p>They walked across the great court, which was covered
with a soft, springy turf of green. The hot sun shining down
on them, the brilliant colors of the buildings, the towering
walls of the magnificent edifice they were approaching, and,
behind them, the shining hull of the <i>Ancient Mariner</i> set
among the dark, needle-shaped Nansalian ships, all combined
to make a picture that would remain in their minds
for a long time.</p>
<p>Here, there were no guards watching them as they were
conducted to the meeting of the Supreme Council of Three.</p>
<p>They went into the main entrance of the towering government
building and stepped into the great hall on the
ground floor. It was like the interior of an ancient Gothic
cathedral, beautiful and dignified. Great pillars of green stone
rose in graceful, fluted columns, smoothly curving out like
the branches of some stylized tree to meet in arches that
rose high in pleasing curves to a point midway between four
pillars. The walls were made of a dark green stone as a
background; on them had been traced designs in colored
tile.</p>
<p>The whole hall was a thing of colored beauty; the color
gave it life, as the yellow sunlight gave life to the trees of
the mountains.</p>
<p>They crossed the great hall and came at last to the elevator.
Its door was made of narrow strips of metal, so bound
together that the whole made a flexible, but strong sheet.
In principle, the doors worked like the cover of an antique
roll-top desk. The idea was old, but these men had made
<a id="Page_166" name="Page_166"></a>their elevator doors very attractive by the addition of color.
In no way did they detract from the dignified grace of the
magnificent hall.</p>
<p>Torlos turned to Arcot. "I wonder if it would not be
wise to shut off your radio as we enter the elevator. Might
not the magnetic force affect it?"</p>
<p>"Probably," Arcot agreed. He contacted Morey and told
him that the radio would be cut off for a short while. "But
it won't be more than three minutes," Arcot finished. "If
it is—you know what to do."</p>
<p>As they entered the elevator, Torlos smiled at the two
Earthmen. "We will ascend more gradually this time, so that
the acceleration won't be so tiring to you." He moved the
controls carefully, and by gentle steps they rose to the
sixty-third floor of the giant building.</p>
<p>As they stepped out of the elevator, Torlos pointed toward
an open window that stretched widely across one wall. Below
them, they could see the <i>Ancient Mariner</i>.</p>
<p>"Your radio contact should be good," Torlos commented.</p>
<p>Wade put in a call to Morey, and to his relief, he made
contact immediately.</p>
<p>The officer was leading them down a green stone corridor
toward a simple door. He opened it, and they entered
the room beyond.</p>
<p>In the center of the room was a large triangular table.
At a place at the center of each side sat one man on a
slightly raised chair, while on each side of him sat a number
of other men.</p>
<p>Torlos stopped at the door and saluted. Then he spoke
in rapid, liquid syllables to the men sitting at the table,
halting once or twice and showing evident embarrassment
as he did so.</p>
<p>He paused, and one of the three men in command replied
rapidly in a pleasant voice that had none of the harsh
command that Arcot had noticed in the voice of the Satorian
Commanding One. Arcot liked the voice and the man.</p>
<p>Judging by Earth standards, he was past middle age—whatever
that might be on Nansal—with crisp black hair
<a id="Page_167" name="Page_167"></a>that was bleaching slightly. His face showed the signs of
worry that the making of momentous decisions always leaves,
but although the face was strong with authority, there was
a gentleness that comes with a feeling of kindly power.</p>
<p>Wade was talking rapidly into the radio, describing the
scene before them to Morey. He described the great table
of dark wood, and the men about it, some in the blue uniform
of the military, and some in the loose, soft garments
of the civilian. Their colored fabrics, individually in good
taste and harmony, were frequently badly out of harmony
with the costume of a neighbor, a difficulty accompanying
this brightly tinted clothing.</p>
<p>Torlos turned to Arcot. "The Supreme council asks that
you be seated at the table, in the places left for you."
He paused, then quickly added: "I have told them of your
precautions, and they have said: 'A wise man, having been
received treacherously once, will not again be trapped.' They
approve of your policy of caution.</p>
<p>"The men who sit at the raised portions of the table are
the Supreme Three; the others are their advisors who know
the details of Science, Business, and War. No one man can
know all the branches of human endeavor, and this is but a
meeting place of those who know best the individual lines.
The Supreme Three are elected from the advisors in case of
the death of one of the Three, and they act as co-ordinators
for the rest.</p>
<p>"The man of Science is to your left; directly before you
is the man of Business, and to your right is the Commander
of the Military.</p>
<p>"To whom do you wish to speak first?"</p>
<p>Arcot considered for a moment, then: "I must first tell the
Scientist what it is I have, then tell the Commander how
he can use it, and finally I will tell the Businessman what
will be needed."</p>
<p>Arcot had noticed that the military officers all wore
holsters for their pneumatic pistols, but they were conspicuously
empty. He was both pleased and embarrassed. What
should he do—he, who carried two deadly pistols. He decided
<a id="Page_168" name="Page_168"></a>on the least conspicuous course and left them where
they were.</p>
<p>Arcot projected his thoughts at Torlos. "We have come a
vast distance across space, from another galaxy. Let your
astronomer tell them what distance that represents."</p>
<p>Arcot paused while Torlos put the thoughts into the words
of the Nansalian language. A moment later, one of the
scientists, a tall, powerfully built man, even for these men
of giant strength, rose and spoke to the others. When he
was seated, a second rose and spoke also, with an expression
of puzzled wonder.</p>
<p>"He says," Torlos translated, "that his science has taught
him that a speed such as you say you have made is impossible,
but the fact that you are here proves his science
wrong.</p>
<p>"He reasoned that since your kind live on no planet of
this system, you must come from another star. Since his
science says that this is just as impossible as coming from
another galaxy, he is convinced of the fallacy in the theories."</p>
<p>Arcot smiled. The sound reasoning was creditable; the
man did not label as "impossible" something which was
proven by the presence of the two Earthmen.</p>
<p>Arcot tried to explain the physical concepts behind his
space-strain drive, but communication broke down rapidly;
Torlos, a warrior, not a scientist, could not comprehend the
ideas, and was completely unable to translate them into his
own language.</p>
<p>"The Chief Physicist suggests that you think directly
at him," Torlos finally told Arcot. "He suggests that the
thoughts might be more familiar to him than to me." He
grinned. "And they certainly aren't clear to me!"</p>
<p>Arcot projected his thoughts directly toward the physicist;
to his surprise, the man was a perfect receiver. He had
a natural gift for it. Quickly, Arcot outlined the system
that had made his intergalactic voyage possible.</p>
<p>The physicist smiled when Arcot was finished, and tried
to reply, but he was not a good transmitter. Torlos aided
him.</p>
<p>"<a id="Page_169" name="Page_169"></a>He says that the science of your people is far ahead of
us. The conceptions are totally foreign to his mind, and he
can only barely grasp the significance of the idea of bent
emptiness that you have given him. He says, however, that
he can fully appreciate the possibility that you have shown
him. He has given your message to the Three, and they are
anxious to hear of the weapons you have."</p>
<p>Arcot drew the molecular pistol, and holding it up for
all to see, projected the general theory of its operation toward
the physicist.</p>
<p>To the Chief Physicist of Nansal, the idea of molecular
energy was an old one; he had been making use of it all
his life, and it was well known that the muscles used the
heat of air to do their work. He understood well how it
worked, but not until Arcot projected into his mind the mental
impression of how the Earthmen had thrown one sun into
another did he realize the vast power of the ray.</p>
<p>Awed, the man translated the idea to his fellows.</p>
<p>Then Arcot drew the heat pistol and explained how the
annihilation of matter within it was converted into pure
heat by the relux lens.</p>
<p>"I will show you how they work," Arcot continued. "Could
we have a lump of metal of some kind?"</p>
<p>The Scientist spoke into an intercom microphone, and
within a few minutes, a large lump of iron—a broken casting—was
brought in. Arcot suspended it on the molecular
beam while Wade melted it with the heat beam. It melted
and collapsed into a ball that glowed brilliantly and flamed
as its surface burned in the oxygen of the air. Wade cut
off his heat ray, and the ball quickly cooled under the influence
of the molecular beam until Arcot lowered it to the
floor, a perfect sphere crusted with ice and frost.</p>
<p>Arcot continued for the better part of an hour to explain
to the Council exactly what he had, how they could be
used, and what materials and processes were needed to make
them.</p>
<p>When he was finished, the Supreme Three conferred for
several minutes. Then the Scientist asked, through Torlos:
"<a id="Page_170" name="Page_170"></a>How can we repay you for these things you have given
us?"</p>
<p>"First, we need lead to fuel our ship." Arcot gave them
the exact specifications for the lead wire they needed.</p>
<p>He received his answer from the man of Business and
Manufacturing. "We can give you that easily, for lead is
cheap. Indeed, it seems hardly enough to repay you."</p>
<p>"The second thing we need," Arcot continued, "is information.
We became lost in space and are unable to find our
way home. I would like to explain the case to the Astronomer."</p>
<p>The Astronomer proved to be a man of powerful intelligence
as well as powerful physique, and was a better
transmitter than receiver. It took every bit of Arcot's powerful
mind to project his thoughts to the man.</p>
<p>He explained the dilemma that he and his friends were
in, and told him how he could recognize the Galaxy on his
plates. The Astronomer said he thought he knew of such
a nebula, but he would like to compare his own photographs
with Arcot's to make sure.</p>
<p>"In return," Arcot told him, "we will give you another
weapon—a weapon, this time, to defeat the astronomer's
greatest enemy, distance. It is an electrical telescope which
will permit you to see life on every planet of this system.
With it, you can see a man at a distance ten times as
great as the distance from Nansal to your sun!"</p>
<p>Eagerly, the Astronomer questioned Arcot concerning the
telectroscope, but others were clamoring for Arcot's attention.</p>
<p>The Biologist was foremost among the contenders; he
seemed worried about the possibility of the alien Earthmen
carrying pathogenic bacteria.</p>
<p>"Torlos has told us that you have an entirely different
internal organization. What is it that is different? I can't believe
that he has correctly understood you."</p>
<p>Arcot explained the differences as carefully as possible.
By the time he was finished, the Biologist felt sure that any
such creature was sufficiently far removed from them to be
<a id="Page_171" name="Page_171"></a>harmless biologically, but he wanted to study the Man
of Earth further.</p>
<p>Arcot had brought along a collection of medical books
as a possible aid in case of accident. He offered to give
these to Nansal in exchange for a collection of Nansalian
medical texts. The English would have to be worked out
with the aid of a dictionary and a primary working aid
which Arcot would supply. Arcot also asked for a skeleton
to take with him, and the Biologist readily agreed.</p>
<p>"We'd like to give you one in return," Arcot grinned,
"But we only brought four along, and, unfortunately, we
are using them at the moment."</p>
<p>The Biologist smiled back and assured him that they
would not think of taking a piece of apparatus so vitally
necessary to the Earthmen.</p>
<p>The Military Leader was the man who demanded attention
next. Arcot had a long conference with him, and they
decided that the best way for the Military Leader to learn
the war potential of the <i>Ancient Mariner</i> was to personally
see a demonstration of its powers.</p>
<p>The Council decided that the Three would go on the
trip. The Military Commander picked two of his aides to go,
and the Scientist picked the Astronomer and the Physicist.
The head of Business and Manufacturing declined to bring
any of his advisors.</p>
<p>"We would learn nothing," he told Arcot, "and would
only be in the way. I, myself, am going only because I am
one of the Three."</p>
<p>"Very well," said Arcot. "Let's get started."</p>
<hr style="width: 65%;"/>
</section></body></html>