<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 4</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-4" epub:type="chapter">

<h2><a id="IV" name="IV"></a>IV</h2>
<p>The <i>Ancient Mariner</i> was built in the big Transcontinental
shops in Newark; the power they needed was not available
in the smaller shops.</p>
<p><a id="Page_31" name="Page_31"></a>Working twenty-four hours a day, in three shifts, skilled
men took two months to finish the hull according to Fuller's
specifications. The huge walls of lux metal required great
care in construction, for they could not be welded; they
had to be formed in position. And they could only be
polished under powerful magnets, where the dense magnetic
field softened the lux metal enough to allow a diamond
polisher to do the job.</p>
<p>When the hull was finished, there came the laborious
work of installing the power plant and the tremendous power
leads, the connectors, the circuits to the relays—a thousand
complex circuits.</p>
<p>Much of it was standard: the molecular power tubes, the
molecular ray projectors, the power tubes for the invisibility
apparatus, and many other parts. All the relays were standard,
the gyroscopic stabilizers were standard, and the electromagnetic
braking equipment for the gyros was standard.</p>
<p>But there would be long days of work ahead for Arcot,
Wade, and Morey, for only they could install the special
equipment; only they could put in the complicated wiring,
for no one else on Earth understood the circuits they had
to establish.</p>
<p>During the weeks of waiting, Arcot and his friends
worked on auxiliary devices to be used with the ship. They
wanted to make some improvements on the old molecular
ray pistols, and to develop atomic powered heat projectors
for hand use. The primary power they stored in small space-strain
coils in the handgrip of the pistol. Despite their
small size, the coils were capable of storing power for thirty
hours of continuous operation of the rays. The finished
weapon was scarcely larger than a standard molecular ray
pistol.</p>
<p>Arcot pointed out that many of the planets they might
visit would be larger than Earth, and they lacked any
way of getting about readily under high gravity. Since
something had to be done about that, Arcot did it. He
demonstrated it to his friends one day in the shop yard.</p>
<p>Morey and Wade had just been in to see Fuller about
<a id="Page_32" name="Page_32"></a>some details of the ship, and as they came out, Arcot called
them over to his work bench. He was wearing a space suit
without the helmet.</p>
<p>The modern space suit is made of woven lux metal wires
of extremely small diameter and airproofed with a rubberoid
fluorocarbon plastic, and furnished with air and heating units.
Made as it was, it offered protection nothing else could offer;
it was almost a perfect insulator and was resistant to
the attack of any chemical reagent. Not even elemental fluorine
could corrode it. And the extreme strength of the lux
metal fiber made it stronger, pound for pound, than steel or
coronium.</p>
<p>On Arcot's back was a pack of relux plated metal. It
was connected by relux web belts to a broad belt that
circled Arcot's waist. One thin cable ran down the right
arm to a small relux tube about eight inches long by two
inches in diameter.</p>
<p>"Watch!" Arcot said, grinning.</p>
<p>He reached to his belt and flipped a little switch.</p>
<p>"So long! See you later!" He pointed his right arm toward
the ceiling and sailed lightly into the air. He lowered the
angle of his arm and moved smoothly across the huge hangar,
floating toward the shining bulk of the rapidly forming
<i>Ancient Mariner</i>. He circled the room, rising and sinking at
will, then headed for the open door.</p>
<p>"Come out and watch me where there's more room," he
called.</p>
<p>Out in the open, he darted high up into the air until he
was a mere speck in the sky. Then he suddenly came dropping
down and landed lightly before them, swaying on his
feet and poised lightly on his toes.</p>
<p>"Some jump," said Morey, in mock surprise.</p>
<p>"Yeah," agreed Fuller. "Try again."</p>
<p>"Or," Wade put in, "give me that weight annihilator and
I'll beat you at your own game. What's the secret?"</p>
<p>"That's a cute gadget. How much load does it carry?"
asked Morey, more practically.</p>
<p>"I can develop about ten tons as far as it goes, but the
<a id="Page_33" name="Page_33"></a>human body can't take more than five gravities, so we can
only visit planets with less than that surface gravity. The
principle is easy to see; I'll show you."</p>
<p>He unhooked the cables and took the power pack from
his back. "The main thing is the molecular power unit here,
electrically heated and mounted on a small, massive gyroscope.
That gyro is necessary, too. I tried leaving it out and
almost took a nosedive. I had it coupled directly to the body
and leaned forward a little bit when I was in the air. Without
a gyro to keep the drive upright, I took a loop and
started heading for the ground. I had to do some fancy
gymnastics to keep from ending up six feet under—literally.</p>
<p>"The power is all generated in the pack with a small
power plate and several storage coils. I've also got it hooked
to these holsters at my belt so we can charge the pistols
while we carry them.</p>
<p>"The control is this secondary power cable running down
my arm to my hand. That gives you your direction, and the
rheostat here at the belt changes the velocity.</p>
<p>"I've only made this one so far, but I've ordered six others
like it. I thought you guys might like one, too."</p>
<p>"I think you guessed right!" said Morey, looking inside
the power case. "Hey! Why all the extra room in the case?"</p>
<p>"It's an unperfected invention as yet; we might want to
put some more stuff in there for our own private use."</p>
<p>Each of the men tried out the apparatus and found it
quite satisfactory.</p>
<p>Meanwhile, there was other work to be done.</p>
<p>Wade had been given the job of gathering the necessary
food and anything else in the way of supplies that he might
think of. Arcot was collecting the necessary spare parts and
apparatus. Morey was gathering a small library and equipping
a chemistry laboratory. Fuller was to get together the
necessary standard equipment for the ship—tables, seats,
bunks, and other furniture.</p>
<p>It took months of work, and it seemed it would never
<a id="Page_34" name="Page_34"></a>be finished, but finally, one clear, warm day in August, the
ship was completely equipped and ready to go.</p>
<p>On the last inspection, the elder Dr. Arcot and the elder
Mr. Morey went with the four younger men. They stood
beside the great intergalactic cruiser, looking up at its shining
hull.</p>
<p>"We came a bit later than we expected, son," said Dr.
Arcot, "but we still expect a good show." He paused and
frowned, "I understand you don't intend to take any trial
trip. What's the idea?"</p>
<p>Arcot had been afraid his father would be worried about
that, so he framed his explanation carefully. "Dad, we figured
this ship out to the last decimal place; it's the best we
can make it. Remember, the molecular motion drive will
get a trial first; we'll give it a trial trip when we leave the
sun. If there's any trouble, naturally, we'll return. But the
equipment is standard, so we're expecting no trouble.</p>
<p>"The only part that would require a trial trip is the space-control
apparatus, and there's no way to give that a trial
trip. Remember, we have to get far enough out from the
sun so that the gravitational field will be weak enough for
the drive to overcome it. If we tried it this close, we'd just
be trying to neutralize the sun's gravity. We'd be pouring
out energy, wasting a great deal of it; but out away from
the sun, we'll get most of the energy back.</p>
<p>"On the other hand, when we do get out and get started
we will go faster than light, and we'd be hopelessly beyond
the range of the molecular motion drive in an instant. In
other words, if the space-control drive doesn't work, we
can't come back, and if it does work, there's no need to come
back.</p>
<p>"And if anything goes wrong, we're the only ones who
could fix it, anyway. If anything goes wrong, I'll radio
Earth. You ought to be able to hear from me in about a
dozen years." He smiled suddenly. "Say! We might go out
and get back here in time to hear ourselves talking!</p>
<p>"But you can see why we felt that there was little reason
<a id="Page_35" name="Page_35"></a>for a trial trip. If it's a failure, we'll never be back to say
so; if it isn't, we'll be able to continue."</p>
<p>His father still looked worried, but he nodded in acquiescence.
"Perfect logic, son, but I guess we may as well
give up the discussion. Personally, I don't like it. Let's
see this ship of yours."</p>
<p>The great hull was two hundred feet long and thirty
feet in diameter. The outer wall, one foot of solid lux metal,
was separated from the inner, one-inch relux wall by a two
inch gap which would be evacuated in space. The two
walls were joined in many places by small lux metal cross-braces.
The windows consisted of spaces in the relux wall,
allowing the occupants to see through the transparent lux
hull.</p>
<p>From the outside, it was difficult to detect the exact outline
of the ship, for the clear lux metal was practically invisible
and the foot of it that surrounded the more visible
part of the ship gave a curious optical illusion. The perfect
reflecting ability of the relux made the inner hull difficult
to see, too. It was more by absence than presence that one
detected it; it blotted out things behind it.</p>
<p>The great window of the pilot room disclosed the pilot
seats and the great switchboard to one side. Each of the
windows was equipped with a relux shield that slid into
position at the touch of a switch, and these were already
in place over the observatory window, so only the long,
narrow portholes showed the lighted interior.</p>
<p>For some minutes, the elder men stood looking at the
graceful beauty of the ship.</p>
<p>"Come on in—see the inside," suggested Fuller.</p>
<p>They entered through the airlock close to the base of the
ship. The heavy lux door was opened by automatic machinery
from the inside, but the combination depended
on the use of a molecular ray and the knowledge of the
correct place, which made it impossible for anyone to open
it unless they had the ray and knew where to use it.</p>
<p>From the airlock, they went directly to the power room.
Here they heard the soft purring of a large oscillator tube
<a id="Page_36" name="Page_36"></a>and the indistinguishable murmur of smoothly running AC
generators powered by large contraterrene reactors.</p>
<p>The elder Dr. Arcot glanced in surprise at the heavy-duty
ammeter in a control panel.</p>
<p>"Half a billion amperes! Good Lord! Where is all that
power going?" He looked at his son.</p>
<p>"Into the storage coils. It's going in at ten kilovolts, so
that's a five billion kilowatt supply. It's been going for
half an hour and has half an hour to run. It takes two
tons of matter to charge the coil to capacity, and we're
carrying twenty tons of fuel—enough for ten charges. We
shouldn't need more than three tons if all goes well, but 'all'
seldom does.</p>
<p>"See that large black cylinder up there?" Arcot asked,
pointing.</p>
<p>Above them, lying along the roof of the power room, lay
a great black cylinder nearly two feet in diameter and extending
out through the wall in the rear. It was made
integral with two giant lux metal beams that reached to
the bow of the ship in a long, sweeping curve. From one
of the power switchboards, two heavy cables ran up to
the giant cylinder.</p>
<p>"That's the main horizontal power unit. We can develop
an acceleration of ten gravities either forward or backward.
In the curve of the ship, on top, sides, and bottom, there
are power units for motion in the other two directions.</p>
<p>"Most of the rest of the stuff in this section is old hat
to you, though. Come on into the next room."</p>
<p>Arcot opened the heavy relux door, leading the way into
the next room, which was twice the size of the power room.
The center of the floor was occupied by a heavy pedestal of
lux metal upon which was a huge, relux-encased, double
torus storage coil. There was a large switchboard at the
opposite end, while around the room, in ordered groups,
stood the familiar double coils, each five feet in diameter.
The space within them was already darkening.</p>
<p>"Well," said Arcot, senior, "that's some battery of power
<a id="Page_37" name="Page_37"></a>coils, considering the amount of energy one can store. But
what's the big one for?"</p>
<p>"That's the main space control," the younger Arcot answered.
"While our power is stored in the smaller ones,
we can shoot it into this one, which, you will notice, is constructed
slightly differently. Instead of holding the field
within it, completely enclosed, the big one will affect all
the space about it. We will then be enclosed in what might
be called a hyperspace of our own making."</p>
<p>"I see," said his father. "You go into hyperspace and
move at any speed you please. But how will you see where
you're going?"</p>
<p>"We won't, as far as I know. I don't expect to see a thing
while we're in that hyperspace. We'll simply aim the ship
in the direction we want to go and then go into hyperspace.
The only thing we have to avoid is stars; their gravitational
fields would drain the energy out of the apparatus
and we'd end up in the center of a white-hot star. Meteors
and such, we don't have to worry about; their fields
aren't strong enough to drain the coils, and since we
won't be in normal space, we can't hit them."</p>
<p>The elder Morey looked worried. "If you can't see your
way back you'll get lost! And you can't radio back for help."</p>
<p>"Worse than that!" said Arcot. "We couldn't receive a
signal of any kind after we get more than three hundred
light years away; there weren't any radios before that.</p>
<p>"What we'll do is locate ourselves through the sun's
light. We'll take photographs every so often and orient ourselves
by them when we come back."</p>
<p>"That sounds like an excellent method of stellar navigation,"
agreed Morey senior. "Let's see the rest of the ship."
He turned and walked toward the farther door.</p>
<p>The next room was the laboratory. On one side of the
room was a complete physics lab and on the other was a
well-stocked and well-equipped chemistry lab. They could
perform many experiments here that no man had been able
to perform due to lack of power. In this ship they had
<a id="Page_38" name="Page_38"></a>more generating facilities than all the power stations of
Earth combined!</p>
<p>Arcot opened the next door. "This next room is the physics
and chemistry storeroom. Here we have a duplicate—in
some cases, six or seven duplicates—of every piece of apparatus
on board, and plenty of material to make more.
Actually, we have enough equipment to make a new ship
out of what we have here. It would be a good deal smaller,
but it would work.</p>
<p>"The greater part of our materials is stored in the curvature
of the ship, where it will be easy to get at if necessary.
All our water and food is there, and the emergency oxygen
tanks.</p>
<p>"Now let's take the stairway to the upper deck."</p>
<p>The upper deck was the main living quarters. There were
several small rooms on each side of the corridor down
the center; at the extreme nose was the control room, and
at the extreme stern was the observatory. The observatory
was equipped with a small but exceedingly powerful telectroscope,
developed from those the Nigrans had left on one
of the deserted planets Sol had captured in return for the
loss of Pluto to the Black Star. The arc commanded by the
instrument was not great, but it was easy to turn the ship
about, and most of their observations could be made without
trouble.</p>
<p>Each of the men had a room of his own; there was a
small galley and a library equipped with all the books the
four men could think of as being useful. The books and all
other equipment were clamped in place to keep them from
flying around loose when the ship accelerated.</p>
<p>The control room at the nose was surrounded by a hemisphere
of transparent lux metal which enabled them to see
in every direction except directly behind, and even that blind
spot could be covered by stationing a man in the observatory.</p>
<p>There were heat projectors and molecular ray projectors,
each operated from the control room in the nose. To complete
the armament, there were more projectors in the stern,
<a id="Page_39" name="Page_39"></a>controlled from the observatory, and a set on either side
controlled from the library and the galley.</p>
<p>The ship was provisioned for two years—two years without
stops. With the possibility of stopping on other planets,
the four men could exist indefinitely in the ship.</p>
<p>After the two older men had been shown all through the
intergalactic vessel, the elder Arcot turned to his old friend.
"Morey, it looks as if it was time for us to leave the <i>Ancient
Mariner</i> to her pilots!"</p>
<p>"I guess you're right. Well—I'll just say goodbye—but
you all know there's a lot more I could say." Morey senior
looked at them and started toward the airlock.</p>
<p>"Goodbye, son," said the elder Arcot. "Goodbye, men.
I'll be expecting you any time within two years. We can
have no warning, I suppose; your ship will outrace the radio
beam. Goodbye." Dr. Arcot joined his old friend and they
went outside.</p>
<p>The heavy lux metal door slid into place behind them,
and the thick plastic cushions sealed the entrance to the
airlock.</p>
<p>The workmen and the other personnel around the ship
cleared the area and stood well back from the great hull.
The two older men waved to the men inside the ship.</p>
<p>Suddenly the ship trembled, and rose toward the sky.</p>
<hr style="width: 65%;"/>
</section></body></html>